Add Custom Error Handling page (vLatest) (#994)
vaadin/docs: articles/flow/advanced/custom-error-handler.asciidoc

---
title: Custom Error Handling
order: 145
layout: page
---

= Custom Error Handling

You can customize the error views related to navigation between different routes as described in the <<{articles}/flow/routing/exceptions#, Router Exception Handling>> section.

> For other unhandled runtime exceptions, an `ErrorHandler` class can be used to gracefully let users know that something went wrong. In order to do so, first create your custom `ErrorHandler` class, then use that class to override the default error handler via `VaadinSession.getCurrent().setErrorHandler(ErrorHandler)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For other unhandled runtime exceptions, an [classname]#ErrorHandler# class can be used to gracefully let users know that something went wrong.
In order to do so, first create your custom [classname]#ErrorHandler# class, then use that class to override the default error handler.
```

> For example, the following `CustomErrorHandler` class logs the error and displays a friendly notification to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the following [classname]#CustomErrorHandler# class logs the error and displays a friendly notification to the user.
```

[source,java]
----
public class CustomErrorHandler implements ErrorHandler {

    private static final Logger logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger(CustomErrorHandler.class);

    @Override
    public void error(ErrorEvent errorEvent) {
        logger.error("Something wrong happened", errorEvent.getThrowable());
        if(UI.getCurrent() != null) {
            UI.getCurrent().access(() -> {
                Notification.show("An internal error has occurred." +
                        "Please contact support.");
            });
        }
    }
}
----

> In order for the logic in this class to take effect, you can then assign it to the current user session using `VaadinSession.getCurrent().setErrorHandler(new CustomErrorHandler());`. In order to apply the custom error-handling logic to all user sessions, it is usually more convenient to make use of a `SessionInitListener`, which receives an event each time a new `VaadinSession` is initialized (see <<session-and-ui-init-listener#,Session and UI Listeners tutorial>> to learn how to create a `SessionInitListener`). 

Reviewer: Inlining code snippets within paragraph text is not something I encourage to do. Instead, when you write them as 
explicit source code blocks, users get syntax highlighting and the copy-to-clipboard button. And it’s likely easier to skim the page and notice the relevant code you need, when it’s not "hiding" inside a paragraph.

```suggestion
Then assign the custom error handler to the current user session:

[source,java]
----
VaadinSession.getCurrent().setErrorHandler(new CustomErrorHandler());
----
 
To apply the custom error handler to all user sessions, you can use a [classname]#SessionInitListener#, which receives an event each time a new `VaadinSession` is initialized.
See the <<session-and-ui-init-listener#,Session and UI Listeners>> article to learn how to create a [classname]#SessionInitListener#.
```
